Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and gentlemen
and get ready to travel through time and save
the future as we take a look back at the original
scifi film that started a legendary franchise.
This is The Terminator.
In the distant future of 2029 AD Los Angeles
looks a lot like Detroit.
In this ruined world, machines had conquered
and crushed humanity beneath steel and laser
beams and at the zenith of their defeat they
had one final trick to pull and so humanity
has one last ditch effort to save our species
from total annihilation before it ever begins.
In 1984, 1:52 AM, things go a little crazy.
As electricity courses through the air, a
naked man appears out of nowhere.
This hulking man takes steps to observe the
LA skyline before he runs into some nearby
punks and demands that they give him their
clothes.
They attack him but he kills 2 of them with
his bare hands so the last guy standing eagerly
hands over his clothes.
But Somewhere else in the city, a similar
phenomenon occurs and a different naked and
scruffy looking guy appears.
Hurt and a little injured, the scruffy man
takes a homeless guy’s pants before running
from the cops although he manages to ambush
one and asks what year it is before running
off into a store after stealing a cop’s
gun and puts on a pair of shoes and a coat
for himself.
All the while hiding from the cops and after
sneaking around, getting out of the store
and stealing a shotgun from a cruiser he walks
away.
Looking like any other person on an LA sidewalk,
just headed for a phonebooth to look at a
phone book for the name: Sarah Connor.
Who is she?
Well, she’s this young lady working as a
waitress, overworked, flustered, and going
through a tough time.
More on her later as we see that the big dude
from earlier goes to a gun shop and steals
some guns and ammo.
At the same time the scruffy man from earlier
saws off the stock of his shotgun and begins
his search for Sarah.
Now that he’s locked and loaded, the big
guy then goes through a phone book and also
searches for Sarah Connor.
Finding a Sarah Connor at an address which
he goes to and after knocking on the door
and meeting Sarah Connor he pulls out a gun
and kills her.
Sometime after this, ‘our’ Sarah Connor
watches a TV newscast about the murder.
While the other guy sits in a car and remembers
the future.
Humans trapped like rats, crawling beneath
rubble, running and hiding from killer robots.
Doing everything in their power to kill another
machine and make it through the day.
His dream ends and he wakes up, driving off
in the LA night streets.
Off to find Sarah
Who gets ready for a night out in the town
and drives on her bike, unaware she’s being
followed by the scruffy man from the future.
At the same time the police get to talking
about a series of deaths all involving victims
named “Sarah Connor” and now are trying
to get in touch with Sarah back at her home
but since they can’t get in touch they’ll
try a different method.
So as Sarah has dinner by herself, she finds
out from a newscast about 2 murdered women
by the name of Sarah Connor.
Concerned, she heads to a pay phone and checks
the phone book (seeing her name there) tries
to make a call but the phone’s out of order.
So she leaves the bistro and heads into a
club called Tech Noir followed by the scruffy
haired guy from earlier who she spots passing
by.
She goes in to the back of the club to call
the police but the lines are busy.
Which does not bode well as the Sarah Connor
Killer heads to Sarah’s apartment and kills
Sarah’s room mate and her boyfriend with
extreme prejudice.
Who hears a voice message left by Sarah on
their answering machine which lists the address
of Tech Noir.
Sarah then finally manages to get on call
with the police about the scruffy guy and
waits for them to send a squad car over as
the killer enters and begins making his way
into the club.
At the same time, Sarah makes eye contact
with the scruffy guy from earlier just as
the killer identifies Sarah and points his
gun only to get blasted by the scruffy man
and his shotgun.
Leaving him stunned.
A shootout occurs between the killer and the
shotgunner but ultimately the scruffy time
traveller rescues Sarah and takes her away.
Running from the killer, and after getting
into a car, they narrowly escape though the
Killer chases after them in a police car.
We then find out more about the scruffy man:
his name is Kyle Reese.
A soldier from the future sent to protect
Sarah from being terminated by the killer
robot-cyborg.
An infiltration unit with a flesh and blood
exterior known as a Terminator.
It’s a revelation that Sarah takes well
enough and believes given what she has seen.
Kyle and Sarah ditch the car and get into
a different one, hiding from the police in
a car park where Kyle talks more about the
future: a world torn by nuclear war where
an intelligent machine used for military defense
got so smart that it saw humans as a threat.
It’s a bleak future where humans were hunted,
enslaved in camps, and starved, but one man
gave them hope: John Connor.
The son of Sarah who is yet to be born.
As Kyle gets ready to drive out of the parking
lot, the terminator finds them and tries to
terminate Sarah in a high speed chase that
ends with the terminator crashing the car
and Kyle and Sarah getting picked up by the
cops thought the Terminator is missing.
At the station, Sarah is shook up and the
detectives try to reassure her as much as
they can about tonight’s event.
Hell they even have a shrink here to help
figure out if Kyle Reese is crazy.
Meanwhile inside an apartment, the Terminator
conducts field repairs on itself.
Revealing biological flesh over a metal endoskeleton.
The police question Kyle who tells them all
about the future to their utter disbelief
and delight.
While at the same time, the Terminator prepares
itself.
As the detectives, watch the questioning,
they convince Sarah that Kyle is crazy and
that the Terminator was just some dude who
was high and wearing body armor.
He ain’t coming for her.
As the shrink leaves the building, the Terminator
enters the station and asks politely to see
Sarah Connor before deciding to come back
later in his car.
Then he goes on a cold hearted rampage through
the station, taking on the 30 cops inside
who can’t stop the mechanical monster.
Especially after it knocks out the power in
the building at the same time, that Kyle gets
himself out of handcuffs and goes to rescue
Sarah.
Who together, manage to hustle and get out
of there leaving behind: A trail of destruction.
They stop at the side of the road and ditch
the car after grabbing a few things and settle
down near a ditch where Sarah does some impromptu
first aid on Kyle’s bullet wound he got
earlier.
And to distract her as she works, Kyle tells
Sarah a little bit about her son, John but
can’t tell her who the father is.
But he can talk about why he traveled through
time: he wanted to meet the legendary Sarah
Connor who would teach John everything he
knew about leading, fighting, and surviving.
Something that Sarah has a hard time embracing
or wanting since she’s normal but she settles
in for the night hiding from the Terminator
as Kyle tells her about the future.
And we get a deeper look of what life is like
for humans aside from fighting: dirty, hiding
like rats, finding whatever comfort whereever
humans can.
As for Kyle, he finds comfort in a photo of
Sarah Connor seated in a car next to a dog.
But his rest is interrupted by the arrival
of a Terminator who like a demon slaughters
the humans without remorse.
The next day, the Terminator whose flesh is
rotting discovers in a diary the location
of a cabin where Sarah’s mom lives.
Kyle and Sarah book a motel room with a kitchen
where Kyle goes out for supplies as Sarah
stays behind.
Later, she gets a call from her mom who is
actually the Terminator impersonating her
mom who finds out the location of the motel
and is on his way there.
That night, Kyle and Sarah make pipe bombs
using a variety of materials and Sarah begins
to really comprehend just how messed up her
life has become and they begin talking about
feelings and about love and Kyle confesses
that he fell in love with her in the future
and coming back in time wasn’t just to meet
a legend but the woman he loves.
Before packing the pipe bombs awkwardly, he
shouldn’t have mentioned it, but Sarah doesn’t
seem to mind.
And one thing leads to another.
After some love making they prepare to leave
when they hear the barking of dogs.
The Terminator is near!
So they quickly, steal a pickup and drive
away with the killer cyborg in hot pursuit.
As they go through a service tunnel, Kyle
lights a few the pipe bombs before chucking
them and just as he’s about to throw one
of them, he gets shot by the Terminator and
drops the bomb.
This leads to Sarah crashing and The Terminator
hijacking a nearby tank truck, now walking
with a limp.
And Sarah only narrowly managed to drag Kyle
from the pickup before it is crushed by the
Terminator in the tanker.
They continue running and with some quick
thinking, Kyle lights a pipe bomb and shoves
it in the exhaust of the Terminator’s truck
causing the vehicle to explode and Sarah watches
as it dies in the flames.
She can finally relax.
She tiredly heads over to wreckage along with
Kyle and they embrace only for The Terminator
to get right back up and chase them.
They run into a metalworks foundry where Kyle
turns on some machinery and Sarah manages
to drag him deeper into the factory just in
time as the terminator has caught up with
them.
As Sarah and Kyle sneak around, Sarah accidentally
activates a pneumatic press alerting the Terminator
who finds them so Kyle bravely but futility
beats it off with a stick and sticks a pipe
bomb into its torso.
Blowing it to smithereens.
The Terminator’s finally dead but Sarah’s
leg got hit with shrapnel so she’s stuck
crawling around the foundry’s floor but
the nightmare isn’t over as the Terminator,
now just a torso with a head and arms is still
going after her.
So she crawls onto a conveyor belt and through
the floor of a particular piece of machinery.
Making it to the other side where she presses
a button.
Crushing the killer robot under the force
of a hydraulic press.
It’s demonic red eyes finally going dark.
Afterwards, Kyle is taken away in a body bag
as Sarah is rushed to a hospital.
Fast forward months later where Sarah is driving
through Mexico and makes tape recordings for
John to listen to in the future.
And while at a gas station, a little kid takes
a photo of her (the same photo Reese had)
and she buys it off the kid and drives off
towards a dark future.
And that was The Terminator, an absolute gold
star classic that if you’re into scifi,
you should totally watch it and with that
being said!
Thank you so much for watching ladies and
gentlemen, if you watched this video leave
a like down below and subscribe to get updated
on my latest uploads.
Until next time and in the immortal words
of Arnold: I’ll be back